---
layout: page
title: Programs
description: Programs offered by Music and Me, featuring Music Together&reg; curricula
---

Located in the beautiful St. Petersburg area, __{{data.title}}__ is a
licensed Music Together&reg; center.  Founded in 2010,
__{{data.title}}__ is committed to helping families rediscover the
pleasure and educational value of informal music experiences. We
recognize that all children are musical and that every child needs a
stimulating, supportive music environment to achieve basic competence in
the wonderful human capacity for music-making!

#### The Music Together Program

For hundreds of thousands of families worldwide, Music Together is
children and their grownups joyfully sharing songs, rhymes, movement,
and instrument play, both in music class and in their daily lives. A
pioneer in early childhood music and movement education, Music Together
offers classes for children from birth through kindergarten, in which
parents and caregivers actively participate.

All children are sounders and movers, and their natural aptitude for
music blossoms in a sufficiently rich music environment. In fact, when
given a supportive music environment, children learn to sing and dance
as naturally as they learn to walk and talk.

How is this possible? Children learn differently than adults.  They
learn instinctively and constantly. They teach themselves through
imitation and play, through being immersed in their environment, and
through every interaction with adults and older children. The
family-like setting of Music Together's mixed-age classes enables
siblings to attend together, creating an ideal learning environment
where infants, toddlers, and preschoolers can freely participate at
their own levels.

#### Music Together Classes

Fully trained, registered Music Together teachers lead groups of six to
twelve children and their parents or caregivers (nannies, babysitters,
grandparents, or relatives) in forty-five minutes of music and movement
experiences.  Each weekly class offers a dozen songs and rhythmic
rhymes, including fingerplays, small- and large-movement activities, and
instrument play.  Children and their adults have opportunities to create
and improvise making up new words to songs, offering movement ideas,
making silly sounds, and sharing musical ideas from the family's play at
home.  The relaxed, playful, non-performance-oriented classroom setting
respects and supports the unique learning styles, developmental levels,
and temperaments of all participants, creating a strong sense of
community.  Families receive two new CDs each semester -- one for home
and one for on-the-go -- along with an illustrated songbook that's
filled with music-making ideas for spontaneous music play beyond the
weekly classes.  (For more information, see our [Curriculum] page)

#### Your Role Is Essential

Young children learn through play and experimentation and by watching
and listening to the grownups they love. Setting an example as an
enthusiastic participator in music activities is the best thing any
parent or caregiver can do to help set a child on the road to a lifelong
love of music. Parents don't need to have music skills -- they just need
a desire to play and have fun with their children! Our teachers are
specially trained to create a safe atmosphere so you can happily join
in, experiment, or even get silly -- and feel closer to your child while
doing so.

#### Music Learning Supports All Learning

Wiggling, singing, and laughing with your child is so much fun, it's
easy to forget how much learning is taking place! Our research-based
curriculum not only develops music skills, it nurtures creativity,
self-expression, and confidence while also supporting social, emotional,
cognitive, and physical development. Because these benefits build over
time, children enjoy the fullest growth in each of these areas when they
participate as consistently as possible up through kindergarten.

